# Image-Processing-using-MATLAB
# Introduction
The main objective of the project was to get process images using low pass high passing different images and compare the results. Image processing is a form of discrete-time signal processing with two dimensions instead of one. Most of the signal processing concepts used can be applied to image processing as well. For this MATLAB software was used
# Methods
Loaded three test images one by one on to MATLAB using [img,cm] = imread(filename) command. Plotted the images using imshow function and observed the images. Used the image and colormap cm as parameters. Changed to different colormaps to observe the differences. 
    The next step was to create a low pass filter. For this, function fspecial was used. The type of filter used was ‘average’ as recommended. The function imfilter was used to apply the filter on to the image and set the variable filtered_image# to each of the filtered image data. The parameters used for this were the filter created and the image data. The filtered image was then plotted using the imfilter function. Plotted myFFT2 of the filter with default HSIZE and compare it with different HSIZE values. Also observed changes in the filtered images. 
    Next step was to high pass filtering the images. For this a two-dimensional impulse was created. This was created using a matrix the same size as of low pass filter created in the previous step. The matrix was filled with zeros and added a 1 in the center. Subtracted the low pass filter from this impulse matrix to get a high pass filter. Ploted myFFT2 and viewed the image. Compared the results. 
# Results
    The results were as expected. Was able to successfully low pass filter and high pass filter images. Filtering images changed the sharpness of the edges of the images. Low pass filtering im_eagles.png gave an image which had a lot of noise on the edges and high pass filtering it gave a noisy outline of the edges. Meanwhile low pass filtering im_coins.png resulted in an image with less noise and sharper edges. High pass filtering it changed the darker pixels to lighter one and vice versa. Finally, low pass filtering the image im_circles.png resulted in an image with smoother edges. High pass filtering it resulted in an image with only the edges of the circles. The edges of it had lighter pixels than from other parts of the image. Making the HSIZE of the low pass filter to bigger made the images blurrier. Making the HSIZE of the high pass filter bigger made the images sharper. 
   The plots of the filters were examined. For this, used the provided myFFT2 function. FFT of low pass filters seems to be divided into multiple low pass filters as size of HSIZE was increased. Meanwhile, the high pass filters had a wave like shape after reaching the highest output. Increasing the HSIZE seems to increase the frequency of this wave.
# Discussion
The low pass filtered images seems to increase the sharpness of the overall images but with smoother edges. This was expected since the averaging filter filtered out high frequency content by averaging a pixel according to pixels nearby it. This caused the edges of the Eagles logo to be noisy compared to other parts of it. High pass filtering the images seems to give an outline of the image. This is also expected since the filter is only passing high frequency content, which is mostly found at the edges. The coins image looked sharper with low pass filter. There was no noise after low pass filtering this image. The filter seems to have rejected high frequency edges and smoothened the edge while averaging other parts. Meanwhile high pass filtering this image changed all the lighter pixels to darker pixels and vice versa. Low pass filtering the circles gave an image with smoother edges as expected.  High pass filtering it gave only an outline of the circle.  
    Increasing the size of the HSIZE of the low pass filter seems to give smoother images. This is because increasing the HISIZE is equivalent to increasing the order of the filter. This creates better filtering. Meanwhile, doing the same on high pass filters seems to change the images to images with sharper edges preserving more high frequency content.    
    The process by which the high pass filter was to create a 2-Dimensional impulse and subtracting the low pass filter from it. This works because an impulse has energy at all frequencies. This is can be verified by taking its Fourier Transform which will result in a constant function suggesting the presence of energy at all frequencies. And subtracting low pass filter from it will leave us with only the high pass filter.   
